---
layout: page
title: Developing the Java source without an IDE
---
On this page, an explanation is given about the development of the Java source without using an IDE.

To build the OpenDA software, a command-line tool called [Ant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Ant) is used. Ant is similar to `make`, but written in Java, such that it is portable between different platforms. Linux users can easily install Ant using the package manager. Windows users can download the software [here](http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi). Before installing Ant, make sure that the [Java Development Kit](https://openda-association.github.io/wiki/java_source) is installed.

When Ant is installed, the source code can be built by simply typing `./ci_build.sh` or `ant build` in the main `<path_to_openda_source>` (they do the same).

If one of the XML schema files (`.xsd`) has changed, then it is necessary to run the [Castor framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Castor_(framework)) to convert XML files to Java source code. More information about these configuration files can be found in the [introduction to OpenDA](https://openda-association.github.io/wiki/introduction_openda). Castor is run by executing `./ci_build_castor.sh`. After this step, the standard Ant build should again be performed.

Upon the execution of the command `ant build`, the following folders are created in the main directory:

- `bin`: contains all binary files required for running OpenDA. This will be the content of an OpenDA distribution file.
- `doc`: contains former OpenDA documentation, including some examples.
- `xmlSchemas`: contains the XML Schema files for the OpenDA configuration files.

Each module directory has the following structure:

- `bin`: contains all binary files related to the respective module.
- `build`: contains the class files resulting from compiling the Java files of the respective module.
- `javadoc`: will contain Java documentation files when they are generated by executing `ant javadoc` on the command line.

To remove the files generated by a build, you can use `ant clean` on the command line. From within a module directory, this command will remove the `bin`, `build` and `javadoc` directories, and the `MANIFEST.MF` file (this file contains meta information about the used JDK version etc.). It does not affect other modules or the folder `bin` in the OpenDA main directory. Executing the command line `ant clean` from the OpenDA main directory will delete the folders `bin`, `doc`, and `xmlSchemas` in the main directory, as well as remove all modules' generated files. Note: to be able to delete files, they cannot be in use (obviously), so close them first.
